Add User Preference Media Features Client Hints Headers article (#5863)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/user-preference-media-features-headers/index.md

The client hints proposed in
[User Preference Media Features Client Hints Headers](https://wicg.github.io/user-preference-media-features-headers/)
will presumably most commonly be used as
[Critical Client Hints](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-davidben-http-client-hint-reliability-02).
Critical Client Hints are Client Hints which meaningfully change the resulting resource. Such a
resource should be fetched consistently across page loads (including the _initial_ page load) to
avoid jarring user-visible switches.

### Client hint syntax

User preference media features consist of a name (like `prefers-reduced-motion`) and allowed values
(like `no-preference` or `reduce`. Each client hint header field is represented as
[Structured Headers for HTTP](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-header-structure-15)
object containing an
[item](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-header-structure-15#section-3.3) whose value
is a [string](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-header-structure-15#section-3.3.3). For
example, to convey that the user prefers a dark theme and reduced motion, the client hints look like
in the example below.

```bash

> Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: "dark"

Reviewer: Shall we add some HTTP commands to give some context? Without it, it's hard to understand where/what is going on.

Author: We can. Will do.

> Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: "dark"

Author: ```suggestion
GET / HTTP/2
Host: example.com
Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: "dark"
```

Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion: "reduce"
```

The CSS equivalent of the information conveyed in the above client hints is
`@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {}` and `@media (prefers-reduced-motion: reduce) {}`
respectively.

## Complete list of the client hints

{% Aside %} While the
[User Preference Media Features Client Hints Headers](https://wicg.github.io/user-preference-media-features-headers/)

> proposal defines a set of client hints, Chromium for now only supports

Reviewer: Nit: "for now" should be replaced by "at the time of writing".

Author: True. Done.

> proposal defines a set of client hints, Chromium for now only supports

Author: ```suggestion
proposal defines a set of client hints, Chromium at the time of writing only supports
```

`Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme`. {% endAside %}

The list of the client hints is modeled after the
[user preference media features](https://drafts.csswg.org/mediaqueries-5/#mf-user-preferences) in
[Media Queries Level 5](https://drafts.csswg.org/mediaqueries-5/#descdef-media-prefers-color-scheme).

> | Client Hint                           | Allowed Values                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Corresponding User Preference Media Feature                                                             |

Reviewer: Shall we add in this table a "supported" or "implemented" column to make it clear only "Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme" is actually working?

Author: I have an `aside` that conveys this info. Focusing too much on the Chrome implementation status is, I think, something we want to avoid.

## Browser support

The `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` client hint header is supported on Chromium&nbsp;93.
Other vendors' feedback, namely [WebKit's](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2021-May/031856.html)
and [Mozilla's](https://github.com/mozilla/standards-positions/issues/526), is pending.

## Demo of `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme`

Try the [demo](https://sec-ch-prefers-color-scheme.glitch.me/) in Chromium&nbsp;93 and notice how
the inlined CSS changes according to the user's preferred color scheme.

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/pKAKyrN18CjhAYUNpJyk.png", alt="Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: dark", width="800", height="541" %}

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/6Xujcgyveo0QY0E3LQOF.png", alt="Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: light", width="800", height="541" %}

## How it works

1. The client makes an initial request to the server.
   ```bash

>    GET / HTTP/1.1

Reviewer: I thought Critical client hints were working only for HTTP 2 and 3 frames. If so, we should update this value.
@yoavweiss to confirm

Author: We can always make it more modern, despite the actual support situation.

>    GET / HTTP/1.1

Author: ```suggestion
   GET / HTTP/2
```

   Host: example.com
   ```
1. The server responds, telling the client via `Accept-CH` that it accepts the
   `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` and the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Contrast` Client Hints, out of which as per
   `Critical-CH` it considers `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` a Critical Client Hint that it also
   varies the response on as conveyed by `Vary`.
   ```bash
   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Content-Type: text/html
   Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme, Sec-CH-Prefers-Contrast
   Vary: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme
   Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme
   ```
1. The client then retries the request, telling the server via `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` that it
   has a user preference for dark-schemed content.
   ```bash

>    GET / HTTP/1.1

Author: ```suggestion
   GET / HTTP/2
```

   Host: example.com
   Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: "dark"
   ```

> 1. The server can then tailor the response to the client's preferences accordingly and, for example,

Reviewer: I believe having a node/server example would also help. WDYT?

Author: True. Will add one.

Other vendors' feedback, namely [WebKit's](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2021-May/031856.html)
and [Mozilla's](https://github.com/mozilla/standards-positions/issues/526), is pending.

## Demo of `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme`

Try the [demo](https://sec-ch-prefers-color-scheme.glitch.me/) in Chromium&nbsp;93 and notice how
the inlined CSS changes according to the user's preferred color scheme.

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/pKAKyrN18CjhAYUNpJyk.png", alt="Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: dark", width="800", height="541" %}

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/6Xujcgyveo0QY0E3LQOF.png", alt="Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: light", width="800", height="541" %}

## How it works

1. The client makes an initial request to the server.
   ```bash
   GET / HTTP/2
   Host: example.com
   ```
1. The server responds, telling the client via `Accept-CH` that it accepts the
   `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` and the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Contrast` Client Hints, out of which as per
   `Critical-CH` it considers `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` a Critical Client Hint that it also
   varies the response on as conveyed by `Vary`.
   ```bash

>    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

Reviewer: I'm fine leaving it as it as HTTP/2 is a binary protocol but I wanted to catch your attention on this.

Author: Thanks. Updated to `/2` everywhere now.

   Content-Type: text/html
   Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme, Sec-CH-Prefers-Contrast
   Vary: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme
   Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme
   ```
1. The client then retries the request, telling the server via `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` that it
   has a user preference for dark-schemed content.
   ```bash
   GET / HTTP/2
   Host: example.com
   Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: "dark"
   ```
1. The server can then tailor the response to the client's preferences accordingly and, for example,
   inline the CSS responsible for the dark theme into the response body.

> ## Privacy and Security Considerations

Author: ```suggestion
## Node.js example

The Node.js example below, written for the popular Express.js framework, shows how
dealing with the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` client hint header could look like in practice.
This code is what actually powers the [demo](#demo-of-sec-ch-prefers-color-scheme) above.

```js
app.get("/", (req, res) => {
  // Tell the client the server accepts the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` client hint…
  res.set("Accept-CH", "Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme");
  // …and that the server's response will vary based on its value…
  res.set("Vary", "Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme");
  // …and that the server considers this client hint a _critical_ client hint.
  res.set("Critical-CH", "Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme");
  // Read the user's preferred color scheme from the headers…
  const prefersColorScheme = req.get("sec-ch-prefers-color-scheme");
  // …and send the adequate HTML response with the right CSS inlined.
  res.send(getHTML(prefersColorScheme));
});
```

## Privacy and Security Considerations
```

   Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: "dark"
   ```
1. The server can then tailor the response to the client's preferences accordingly and, for example,
   inline the CSS responsible for the dark theme into the response body.

## Node.js example

The Node.js example below, written for the popular Express.js framework, shows how
dealing with the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` client hint header could look like in practice.
This code is what actually powers the [demo](#demo-of-sec-ch-prefers-color-scheme) above.

```js
app.get("/", (req, res) => {
  // Tell the client the server accepts the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` client hint…
  res.set("Accept-CH", "Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme");
  // …and that the server's response will vary based on its value…
  res.set("Vary", "Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme");
  // …and that the server considers this client hint a _critical_ client hint.
  res.set("Critical-CH", "Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme");
  // Read the user's preferred color scheme from the headers…
  const prefersColorScheme = req.get("sec-ch-prefers-color-scheme");
  // …and send the adequate HTML response with the right CSS inlined.
  res.send(getHTML(prefersColorScheme));
});

> The Chromium team has designed and implemented User Preference Media Features Client Hints Headers

Author: ```suggestion
## Privacy and security considerations

The Chromium team has designed and implemented User Preference Media Features Client Hints Headers
```

---
title: User preference media features client hints headers
subhead:
  The `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` client hint header allows sites to obtain the user's color
  scheme preferences optionally at request time, allowing servers to inline the right CSS and
  therefore avoid a flash of incorrect color theme.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
  - beaufortfrancois

> date: 2021-07-22

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2021-07-26
```

> date: 2021-07-29

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2021-08-02
```

Other vendors' feedback, namely [WebKit's](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2021-May/031856.html)
and [Mozilla's](https://github.com/mozilla/standards-positions/issues/526), is pending.

## Demo of `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme`

Try the [demo](https://sec-ch-prefers-color-scheme.glitch.me/) in Chromium&nbsp;93 and notice how
the inlined CSS changes according to the user's preferred color scheme.

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/pKAKyrN18CjhAYUNpJyk.png", alt="Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: dark", width="800", height="541" %}

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/6Xujcgyveo0QY0E3LQOF.png", alt="Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: light", width="800", height="541" %}

## How it works

1. The client makes an initial request to the server.
   ```bash
   GET / HTTP/2
   Host: example.com
   ```
1. The server responds, telling the client via `Accept-CH` that it accepts the
   `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` and the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Contrast` Client Hints, out of which as per
   `Critical-CH` it considers `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` a Critical Client Hint that it also
   varies the response on as conveyed by `Vary`.
   ```bash

>    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

Author: ```suggestion
   HTTP/2 200 OK
```
